All right. Hello everyone, um, this video is intended to solve.
2 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
2 problems that I couldn't solve last tutorial online, and I hope by this recording, I cover all the steps required to.
3 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Draw the sheer force and bending moment diagrams.
4 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
For any problem, and specifically here in this problem, or in this recording, I'm going to be solving 2 problems that involve.
5 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Uh, linearly, very distributed load. So, uh, this is basically.
6 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
This, uh, linearly distributed load is probably the, uh.
7 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Let's say the highest level that you can reach. Uh, and.
8 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
In this level, so I'm going to be solving 2 problems.
9 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Uh, on these, uh, types of thoughts and same steps are basically followed for the easier parts for the easier. So, so I, I assume that you have covered lots of problems where you have just normal.
10 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Uh, or a uniform the, this is the rectangular function.
11 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
So, I want to be doing more of the of these problems.
12 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Uh, hopefully you can, uh, look at the later slides and.
13 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
The problems that you have solved in the in the assignment that should be enough. All right.
14 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
So, let's start, uh, starting this these problems it's always the same, which is basically to find the reaction. So, here I have simply supported.
15 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
I have 1 reaction here another action here. This is.
16 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
The why this is a way of course, we have, what is the we have some.
17 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Be Excel, but it is going to be 0 So it's just a.
18 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
You cannot because we have no other forces in the X axis so to take, since we have to unknowns, I take this initial performance around 1 of the points. So points be.
19 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Here's where I'm going to take the submission of moments and that should be equal to 0, the moments 1st of all.
20 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Or before at the moment, let me just convert this valuable or this variable load into a single point load and.
21 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Order to do that I'm gonna convert.
22 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
This whole thing into a single point load is single point act somewhere here.
23 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
What is the value of the value is.
24 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Uh, basically the area of this triangle, so it is basically the base times the height.
25 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Times half let's be half.
26 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Times 1.5 times 3, which is equal to 1.5 times 1.5. That'll be 2.25 get an within this parameter. So this. two five get an within this parameter so this
27 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
This result can be converted to a single point load for the sake of finding the reactions.
28 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
So, what does it act? Exactly it acts at 4th of the distance? This is the role. So it is basically the synthroid of that shape. So the sensor is at 4th of the distance from.
29 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
The highest point so this will be 3 over 3. that would be like, 1 meter here. And from the other side, that would be.
30 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
2 meters, so this is basically me converting that into a single point code. And, uh, and now I know it's value and it's location. Now we're going to solve for the action. So, as I mentioned performance around point 0.
31 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
What I have here, I have this force that is causing a moment and this reaction both are causing moments around point can be. So, what is the moment.
32 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
That's caused by the 1st load. Uh, now it is pointing downwards and it is causing rotation.
33 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Around that is, uh, basically contract requires, so it will have a positive value. That would be.
34 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
2.25 the value itself of the load times the distance between the load and point view, which is 1.
35 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Okay, and then the other fours.
36 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
It will be basically causing, uh, rotation that is basically this way, which is clockwise. So that will be negative.
37 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
A lot of times the distance 3 times equal to 0 from here, I can find a why which is gonna be moved this other side.
38 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Uh, 2.25.
39 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
For 3, 0 points.
40 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
75, the unit is keyed on.
41 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
All right now for.
42 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Can just do submission of forces in the wide access. So.
43 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
That's equal to 0. uh, what do I have I have, which is 0 point.
44 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
75 just replace this with 0.75.
45 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Okay, so +105andthen minus this 2.05.
46 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
And .
47 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
See, why this is equal to 0 is equal to 1.5.
48 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Good, I notice. So I'm going to replace this and kind of put.
49 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
1.5, so these are my actions done. Let me get rid of this so I don't need anymore.
50 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Now, this is my problem I have the reactions everything is ready. Now, I am concerned with finding the sheer force diagram, and depending on on the ground. So let's take a step by step.
51 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
I need not to find the for so, let me just throw the access for that.
52 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
So, this and then.
53 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
This is my access for the sheer force diagram and same 1 just below it. That is for the moment.
54 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
So, here we have the Air Force and Newton, and they have the pending.
55 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Moment and here are Newton's later. Perfect.
56 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
All right, so how do I deal with this problem now? This is going to be.
57 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
A problem that involves cubic and sorry uh, Square and cubic functions.
58 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
So it is not really easy to do it by hand, and just by inspection, cause it is not really straight lines anymore.
59 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
It's basically curvatures and we have an inflection point, and we have a maximum points, and we have exact points where it should cross the X axis. All of these points are very important as you will see in the story. And so.
60 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
I need to find the function for this beam or the function for the.
61 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Through this being basically. So what do I do I'm gonna draw just.
62 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
The main section here, so so suppose I cut the beam at any, any place. So, uh.
63 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
I took a cut at that beam and this cat can be at any place.
64 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Okay, um.
65 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Yeah, so here I have.
66 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
My reaction, which is 0.75.
67 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
And here I have the.
68 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
And the pending moments, and on top of that beam, I have my variable load.
69 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
It's always going to be some other color, so my variable note. So.
70 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Now, the, the big issue.
71 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
How do I convert this into.
72 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Point that is function of X.
73 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
So, now this can be anywhere by the beginning cause basically at any X.
74 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
All right, so how do I convert it?
75 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
This load into a single point, though that is a function of X.
76 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Now, this cut, when I take it, I basically change the value of 1.5 according to where I did the cards. For example, if we took the cut right at the middle. So, this point is where I'm being sequence, which is 0.75 half the, the distance.
77 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
All right. So. the distance all right so
78 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
But it's, uh, the maximum point here depends on.
79 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Or where I take the cut, but.
80 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
There's a general approach to this.
81 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Okay, which is as follows Now suppose.
82 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
That I took the cut at the middle.
83 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
What would be this value here to be? 0.75?
84 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Get a new perimeter.
85 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
And or, let's say the value of W, so I'm going to call this maximum point here, I'm going to call it, which is going to be 0.75 K Newton's parameter. And the length is 1.5.
86 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Right. So.
87 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Now, uh, this is also the value now also support the ticket or I take the cut at quarter to the distance.
88 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Okay, so I'll go with 1 more time. So this is basically some distance here at.
89 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Half that distance. So here I'm going to have.
90 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Very similar drawing, but slightly shorter and they have my sheet force and they have the bending moment.
91 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Or values and tenant forces, and they have my distributed.
92 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
That load will have a value of 0 point.
93 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
75 over, so she's 0.375.
94 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Clear on new things perimeter and the distance here is 0.75. so if I want to make a relationship between.
95 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
This W, and the length a general relationship.
96 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
What do I say? I, I can say that W, over X.
97 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
For any given cut, whatever the cut is.
98 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
This race should W, over X, or let's say W, over the distance.
99 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
I think that has been made is.
100 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
As you notice, it is always constant because the ratio of the triangles is always going to be the same.
101 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
So, if I take the 1st drawing here, this 1.
102 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
What is the ratio of W over? Uh, X is going to be 1.5.
103 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Over 3, right I took the 2nd cut here, which is at the middle.
104 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
I find it to be 0.75 over 1.5 and if I consider this 1.
105 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Can I find that to be 0.375 over 0.75 so what is common between all of this is that ratio is always the same, which is half.
106 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Uh, so it doesn't really matter where I take the cut.
107 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
The ratio of Omega or is always half. So, this is basically what I really care about this half is what I need to find.
108 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
So, instead of just taking the cut and.
109 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
It is basically simply just this load.
110 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
That you find that for the maximum value over the distance.
111 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
That is the issue of Omega, or which is 0.5 for this problem. 0.50.
112 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
This is very important because then I can say that for any given point, whatever that is W, is always 0.5 times X.
113 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
She's a very important outcome. So wherever the cut is whatever the verification of the internal force W, which is the maximum.
114 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Value in this distributed load is equal to 0.5 times instance, whatever or or whatever the distances.
115 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Okay, so this is a very important outcome. So I care about.
116 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Is so, let me reach this and consider my cut that is basically at.
117 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Any given point okay, the value of fix what whatever it is W, is always going to be 0.5 times X. and that is my general way of expressing the.
118 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Distributed load at any given point.
119 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
All right now.
120 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
How to convert that into a single point load for the sake of finding the sheer force question so, that would be basically.
121 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
A force here that has a value of again to the triangle. The base is X. the height is 0.5 X and times half. So a.
122 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Times 0.5 X.
123 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Which is equal to.
124 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
0.25 X Square.
125 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
All right, so I'll just basically a negative value, so it's just pointing downwards but now, let's just find the value of.
126 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
So, enforce it in 1 X is equal to 0.
127 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
I have 0.75 I have -0.25 X.
128 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Square and then I have minus B, this is equal to 0. V. in this case is equal to.
129 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
-0.25 X Square.
130 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Make this clear so 5 square +0.75.
131 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
This is my share force equation. Now the sheer force.
132 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
The diagram is just plotting this function as simple as that just the functional asset.
133 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Okay, so how do I do that? 1st of all.
134 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
I'm gonna, uh, I'm gonna if it's, let's start with, uh, uh.
135 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
With the 1st load that I see here this is 0.75. so it is basically bringing up my curve.
136 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
And a straight line 20.75 and then from this point.
137 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
I'm going to start applying this equation. Okay.
138 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
So, uh, how do I apply this the question now? 1st of all I know that my dog goes from 0 to 3 meters. So I'm.
139 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
I should end up, or I should finish at, uh, at the end of.
140 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
The beam somewhere here. Okay, that's 1 information and.
141 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
If I plot this now is basically a problem so it is square square function and it has a negative value, which means it will look something like this. Not really. Exactly. This could be something like this. Or it could be something like this.
142 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
All of these are negative, uh, Square functions.
143 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
So, negative square function means it should be it should be concave downwards. Okay so it is.
144 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Something like this all this. All right so starting from this point.
145 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Okay, uh, I have negative force, which is basically bringing back or bringing down the curve downwards, but it is slowly increasing. So.
146 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Um, it should start something or should do something like this, not sure exactly how exactly. But, you know, should do something like this. So, uh, it is now very important to know where does the curve meet the X axis.
147 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Okay, that is the the point at which the sheer force is equal to 0. so whenever you find before you plot your.
148 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Find the 0 point from this equation. So what.
149 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Value of X, we'll give you a force 0, which means what other things you will have the intersection with the X axis. So send this to be equal to 0.
150 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Which means X is if you solve this now, this.
151 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
This is important so solving it for X.
152 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
I get mine 0.7 and 5.
153 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Divided by -0.25.
154 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Take this square root of this 3.
155 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
And you get 1.73.
156 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Meters, so this means exactly at 1.73 meters. So, this is just after the half a little bit after the half.
157 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
So, somewhere here at this point.
158 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
There's 1.73 meters at this point. Exactly. I have.
159 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Intersection with the X axis, so it is a problem and intersects with this point. And this problem is a.
160 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Has a negative value, so it is basically give downwards. So it will look something like this.
161 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Okay, but now, is this really accurate? I still don't know because, uh, what is my final value right? So, it could it could do something like this, or it could do something like.
162 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
This so I still don't know. Right. So how do I know I need to find the final value at which it hits the end of the beam.
163 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
So, how do I do that? What is the value of fix here? This is 3.
164 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
So basically, substituting X to be equal to 3. so we, when X is equal to 3.
165 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Is equal to substitute screen the questions. So 3.
166 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
To the power to 9.
167 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Times 0.25+0.75, so I get -1.5 so.
168 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
This is 0.75 so, according to this, this should be something close to here. Maybe 0.75.
169 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
So, -1.5, so this is basically the point at which it would, it should be heading.
170 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Oh, sorry.
171 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Okay, so somewhere at this point, that is my endpoint and you can see now, I can just connect it using some sort of curvature.
172 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
And then, once I do that, I reach now that's basically I am describing the distributed load. Now I still have to add this reaction, which is basically bringing up the curve up by 1.5.
173 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
So this is -1.5+1.5 I'm going to reach 0.
174 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
All right, so I start from JIRA and I end up with this is my curve. It makes sense. Looks nice.
175 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Okay.
176 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
All right now for the bending moment.
177 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Okay, for the minimum, what do I do again? I'm gonna find the equation for this bending moment diagram. Let me miss this.
178 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
This.
179 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
All right, so let's take the summit of moments in this team around whatever point.
180 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Around this point, so submission of comments 1st of all I have my own moment, which is this. I am here.
181 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
And then I have, uh, the moment from this point.
182 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Which is basically causing rotation this way, which is also positive. So, here I have .
183 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
What is the Lord? The Lord is 0.25 X Square.
184 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Times the distance.
185 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
From this load to the point at which it is causing rotation.
186 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
As you said, it is always 4th of the distance so that's 1 over 3 times X. so this is the whole distances x4th of that. That's excellent. That's.
187 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
That is the distance alone. All right and then still have the reaction 275 disclosing negative rotation. So it goes this way, which is clockwise, which is negative. So -0 point.
188 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
75 times the distance, which is X.
189 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
This is equal to Sir now. Um.
190 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Equation now for M, -0 point.
191 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Topic.
192 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Set up until 5 by 3 that's sent over. So let's keep it went over to.
193 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
X -0.75 X.
194 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
So, uh, now I want you guys to stop the video and.
195 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Try and find what is the relationship between the spending moment diagram the equation and the Salesforce.
196 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Between the moment, depending moment equation and the shift situation, what is the relationship between these 2 guys?
197 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
You see some similarities, so think about it and for the video, and try to find it. Right. Uh, so in case you gave up.
198 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Uh, the general rule.
199 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
In, uh, or the relationship between the moment and the is that, uh.
200 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
The, uh, Air Force is the derivative of the.
201 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Bending moment with respect to X.
202 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Okay, so if you want to go from sheer force to pending moment, you basically integrate with X.
203 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
So, we could have just obtained this using just integration. You could just integrate this function and that will give me the same exact.
204 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Result of course, with a constant, but since this is.
205 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Uh, exciting from JIRA. Uh, the moment starts from Jonathan. We don't have any questions.
206 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Anyway, uh, same thing here.
207 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
You can notice that.
208 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
If you want also to think about it, what is the relationship between this.
209 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
And the sheer force, it's also very similar relationship, which is.
210 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Uh, W, is equal to .
211 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
The over the next.
212 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
So also here by doing integration or integration, we can move from Salesforce to load function, which is.
213 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Some of these relationships are basically a known and they are used.
214 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Uh, to make our life easier so, instead of, uh, growing and.
215 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
During the manual way, you can basically just determine the.
216 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
The Lord function as a function of X.
217 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
And then find ve, which is, uh, the integration.
218 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
This guy, oh, you can find in the moment, which is.
219 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Integration of this guy and so on. So, uh, this basically just like, uh.
220 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
This theoretical way of doing it.
221 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
All right, let's go back to the to the question. Now we have the bending moment equation.
222 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
And we want to plot dysfunction. So here we have, we have no concentrated moments. We have no moments that basically look like.
223 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
a moment in the middle of this team these are called concentrating moments so we have no constraints so this is basically should it should look like a continuous function from zero to zero
224 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
That is the 1st thing I should notice since I have no concentrated.
225 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Moments, uh, moment, we'll start from 0 to 0.
226 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
In a continuous and smooth way. Now, the important points.
227 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Is, uh.
228 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
This point is very important. This 1.73, why is it important? Because.
229 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
When the share is equal to 0, this means it's integration has a slope of.
230 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
So, this function will be some sort of, uh, a cubic function. So, cubic function in general.
231 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
They look like this.
232 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Okay, so, for the positive values on the associate X start from here and goes this way, so it should be some, some sort of a.
233 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Basically minus X cube. Okay. It's minus. It is minus. So if it is positive, then it goes this way.
234 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Anyway, what am I here? Yeah.
235 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
So, uh, my function should be concave.
236 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Downwards similar to the square, but not exactly. Square function. So it should look something like this or like this.
237 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Or, like, I I don't know or like this.
238 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Whatever shift, but, you know, I know it is a cubic functions. I know it is negative. I don't know it is in the X axis. I know that I have no shift to the left, or right because they have no Constance.
239 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
So all of these information determine.
240 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Or it gives me an idea and with some experience, of course, in in, I, I can determine or get a feeling how the.
241 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Or how the curve will look like now, that is the manual way of doing it. You can do this point by point taking X values in the small increments, and finding the values and putting the points just point by point whatever.
242 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Don't do that if you want to let, you know, with.
243 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
With some experience, you can just immediately do it.
244 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
So, what is what are the important points here for the pending moment is the point at which the slot is equal to 0.
245 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
So, when a function goes something like this, this maximum point where this is equal to 0, this is the.
246 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
This is the point that's what you the, the.
247 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Derivative intersects the X axis and similarly, here we have.
248 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
So, these points are, what I care about this is the maximum point in that in that curve.
249 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
So, it occurs here, but what is the value? Exactly need to find what is the value? What is the maximum value of this moment? So.
250 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Substitute this value into the bending moment the equation.
251 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
So, what is the moment when X is equal to 1.73? Because, as I said, this.
252 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
But you fix, we'll give you the maximum point.
253 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
In that moment, so.
254 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
1.73 to the 4.
255 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
For the divided by 12-1.
256 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
-0.75 times 1 point.
257 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
what do i have this here i'm not sure
258 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Okay, so it is - minus none doesn't make sense.
259 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Yeah, I guess something something wrong with the signs here.
260 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
this becomes positive when i move this to the other side becomes positive so for this so
261 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
173 2, 3, 4, 3.
262 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
by that by twelve times minus one
263 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
7.75 times.
264 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
0.866.866 has a value of attendance.
265 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Meters so here in my curve, I'm going to go to a point.
266 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Is 0.866 and it is basically at an X value of 1.73. this point is my maximum point. So, here I have scope, which is equal to 0.
267 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
So, as I said, Mike.
268 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
My function was set from 0, and it will end up with 0.
269 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
And this in the positive, we'll look some, some sort of these shapes. So.
270 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
There's no, no other ship other than this 1 something like this. This is how.
271 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Check your bank.
272 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
So that is my bending moment.
273 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Right. So it is a cubic function.
274 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
And it is really hard to tell the difference or how to draw.
275 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
uh the square and pubic function exactly but you know you can approximate the shape at least as long as the shape is right and these points
276 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
All right, then there's no reason why you should lose and increase.
277 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Uh, all right, the other way of doing it if you, if you wanna actually of doing these stuff.
278 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
What you can do is basically just do the following, take this X and small steps.
279 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
And for each X value, determine what is the moment and just put a point in another point point point, point, point point.
280 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Finish the graph then connect the points.
281 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
And you will get the correct ship so it will just take more time. Um.
282 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
but if you are uncomfortable of dealing with this stuff and just with the manual way and do the plots
283 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
All right, so I'm going to stop this question and the other 1.
284 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
What is the other 1? So the other 1 is also.
285 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
A question that is that needs a bit of work.
286 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
So here this 1.
287 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Uh, as you can see here, this problem, I think this because, you know, the 1st, uh, reason is.
288 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
It has.
289 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
A concentrated moment and.
290 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Linearly varying facilitate a lot.
291 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
And the supports are not on the end. So it is basically some, some sort of a tricky problem let's say. So I'm going to solve it step by step here.
292 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Uh, the 1st thing to do is to find the reactions action here.
293 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Action here.
294 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
I have 2 reactions, so he's taking some mention of moments.
295 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Around point to a, let's see here.
296 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
So, what are the forces? I have the concentrated load that.
297 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
That is caused by this linear redistribute will not.
298 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
This has a value of.
299 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
What's the area, which is half times? 30 times the distance 9.
300 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Which is equal to 515.
301 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Times 9, what about the value is.
302 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Okay. All right, that's it. I think so. Let's take the moments at 1.8. this load will give you this 15.
303 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Times and load, we'll give you a moment around.
304 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Which looks like this, which is clockwise.
305 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
That is negative. The distance is we said that is gonna be 4th.
306 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Distance, which is the same sort of, this triangle. So this is.
307 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
3, and the remaining is 6. so the distance is 6.
308 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Okay, uh, the next load we hit is this by the reaction.
309 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
And it is causing rotation this direction, right? Which is, uh, contact requires.
310 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
It's going to be positive be why.
311 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Times distance of 9 and then finally you are not done you have the concentrated load moment.
312 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Which is causing rotation.
313 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
This way of course, this is -180.
314 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
This whole thing should should be equal to 0.
315 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
From here sequence or 3 times 9 times 6 0.
316 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
180 overnight.
317 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
So, 110 pounds and.
318 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Should be I'm going to quickly. Can do it. Uh.
319 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
25, you can do it step by step if you want consider this stuff to be easy. So, just to save time I am just doing it quickly.
320 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
25, and this is 100.
321 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Of course, the units are pounds now we are done with this. Goodbye. Thank you.
322 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Throw the access to the.
323 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Sure force
324 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
live.
325 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Okay, this is the force and the units are pounds since the bending moment.
326 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
And in pounds, what.
327 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Okay, so let's start, uh, as you said, what do we do we take 1st of all this.
328 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
2nd, okay. Um, all right, I think we are good. Uh, the 1st thing is to convert or deal with.
329 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Or find the equation for this, this, because.
330 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
That will help me, uh, plot the sections where this this table code is acting. So, the 1st thing is this load I need to find the equation for that.
331 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
So that I can plot, uh, easily.
332 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
All right, so let's consider this cut, which is basically taken somewhere in the middle here and remember what we said cost in the last problem how we deal with such problems.
333 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
So, what we have here is the action, which is 25.
334 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
And we have a distributed load.
335 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
And you said that, David you here.
336 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Is equal to, um.
337 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
3rd sorry, uh, let's say.
338 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Over X is equal to 30 over 9. that is the constant.
339 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
The concentration that will be basically at any given value effects.
340 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
No matter what the, what the benefits the issue is gonna be the same, which is 39.
341 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
And this is basically 31,903.
342 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Let's see what that sent over 3, which is 10 over 3. so, from here.
343 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
They will do is equal to 10 over 3 times.
344 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
That is my value of W, wherever I am in the name, I can be anywhere and that is under this load. She's the value of the.
345 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Which is 10 over 3 X and the distance is also at a distance and I have my and.
346 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Pending moment, and now I am good to go. Of course, I need to convert.
347 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
This this will be plugged into a single point. So it will act.
348 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Right here the value of this force is.
349 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
The area of the triangle, which is.
350 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Times, 10 over 3.
351 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
X times X, which is, um, 5 by 3.
352 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
X square yeah.
353 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
And the distance, it acts at 4th distance from the maximum point, which is 3 X here.
354 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
And this distance is.
355 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
2 over 3 X. all right so now I am. Good to go. I can find what is the force equation? So let's do it.
356 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Cheerful submission of forces in why is equal to 0 So 25.
357 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
-5 over 3 X Square.
358 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
P2 P is equal to.
359 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
-5 or 3 Square .
360 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
25, that is my sheer force equation.
361 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
So, for that segment, only I can immediately just find the moment, which is going to be, as you said, because you're going to be the integration of this guy.
362 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
So, we can, uh, uh, that would be 509. so 5.
363 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Over 9 X +25 X this is.
364 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
My moments question, of course, these equations are not for the entire beam. These questions are only under this distributed load. Right? So it helps me plot.
365 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
How does the or the vending moment? How does how does it look like under this load? Only but for the rest of the beam is basically simple and straightforward. So there's no need to find the equations for the rest of the day. So, in general.
366 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
You need to find the equation for every single segment in that way.
367 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
All right, so we have different functions for every single segment. These questions are only for, uh, uh.
368 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
All right, as you said, what do you care about or.
369 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
What do you care the most in these questions care about the value of X.
370 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
When we is equal to 0, that is basically the intersection with the X axis. So what is X.
371 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
X is, uh.
372 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
503 good. Sorry.
373 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
25 times 3 over 5.
374 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Square root so X is 3.87.
375 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Put this point, I have an intersection of the sheer force with the exception. So, this is a very important point. So, let's now, uh, do the force.
376 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
1st of all, I go up by.
377 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
25, so, let's mark this. Let me just, let's leave it alone. Maybe this is 25.
378 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Okay, and from this point.
379 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
I'm gonna mark the 3.87 so that will be approximately 3rd of the distance.
380 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
She's basically approximately here, I'm not really being exactly this point.
381 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
So, is 3.73.8.
382 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
7 foot, so I know that my curve now is.
383 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
It's a, it's a square function that will basically be passing through this point.
384 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
And it ends up with, um.
385 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
1st of all. Uh, so this is a square function, right? And it is negative so it will be concave down somewhere like this, or something like this or something like this. All of these are correct chips as long as it is concave down. That is correct.
386 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
So, we need to know that.
387 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
And it starts from this point, it passes through this point, and it ends up with what points. So, at 9 0.
388 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
It's fine, what is the value of the Salesforce? So.
389 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Uh, what is the, when X is equal to 9?
390 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
So, 503.
391 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Times Square that's 20-25.
392 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
That's -1 is -110somark. The point of -110.
393 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
And 9, this point here that is where the code will look like, or it will pass through these 3 points and it is parabola. So it is concave downwards.
394 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
So this looks like a straight line, although it is not really. So my, my skills are not really correct.
395 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Look something like this. Okay let's move this point for the sake of science.
396 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Let's move it to the right so that you can actually show the slope.
397 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Or the behavior of this graph, what.
398 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Anyone wants to keep it, right? So it is a curve that.
399 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Points or this.
400 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
A curve is it is a curvature. There's a coverage that's points.
401 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Or the, uh, it's concave downwards.
402 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
All right, so that is basically the question for the distribution load. Now, I'm done with this. Now. What is the next step? Is this load.
403 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Which is bringing me up by 110 so I am at .
404 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
110, I grew up by 110. I reach 0.
405 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
And then after that in the game, I have no other goats.
406 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
So, it goes constant until the end of the game.
407 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
And that is my share force.
408 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Okay.
409 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
So the next part is to find the bending moment. So I have the equation for that segment, or which is the hardest 1.
410 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
And keep mind guys keep in mind that you have this concentrated, um, momentum. So don't forget about it.
411 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
So, let's let's start from 0 here.
412 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
No, I have no concentrated load, so it starts from 0. it goes up down whatever it starts from. 2.
413 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
And, uh, what is the shape it is?
414 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
A negative cubic function, so.
415 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
We have no shift. So this guy.
416 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
This negative, so it is some sort of this shape. This 25 X might make it something like this. So I'm not really sure.
417 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Maybe we have to we have to test the values and see.
418 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Anyway, 00 that's put, uh.
419 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Let's put the value of 1 here. See what we get.
420 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
So, 1, that is minus so I get it up. So it goes it goes up.
421 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
It goes up and then down probably.
422 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
All right, so it goes up to what point to a maximum point where does the maximum points of your guys.
423 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Because at the intersection in the sheer force.
424 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
So, then the section means that the.
425 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
The integral of this point has 0, which means it goes.
426 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
This way flat on top, which means the maximum point. So I need to find.
427 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
I need to find what is the moment.
428 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
When X is equal to 3.
429 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Point 87, so 5 over 9 times 3.870 to 4 3.
430 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
-1+25 times 3.87. so 64.50.
431 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Maximum value here I'm going to reach is 64.
432 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Point 5, and to go up.
433 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
So, at this point, at 3 at 3.
434 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Point 87, I will have this value, so it will pass through this point from this point to this point somehow. Okay. Let's find the other points. Now. Uh, the, the other important point is where it will end.
435 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
So, let's see, uh, let's find the value of the moment at 9. so at 9, let's see what.
436 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Well, the point is, and then we can start connecting the dots.
437 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
So, um, the moment when X is equal to 9.
438 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
509 times.
439 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Hi, queue time find this 1+25 times 9.
440 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
-20beautiful? Yeah, nice. -180hereand. The point is exactly here. So I go up. Of course, it is concave downwards and this is. course it is concave downwards and this is
441 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
That is my bending on the diagram. I am not done yet. By the way. This is only for.
442 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Which section, uh, this is for the, uh, for the section at which I have description. Now, I have to continue Adobe. So, after this point.
443 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Do I have any other moments now? There are no concerted moments.
444 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
And my share, my shift function is.
445 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
0, which means it has no area so there is no.
446 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Change in the value of the moment so it keeps.
447 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Straight line until I hit.
448 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
The end point, which is a concentrated moment.
449 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
It is a negative moment, which means it will be bringing me up by 180 points. So from -1 and 80, I go up.
450 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
2+180 this is 1-180.
451 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
I go up by +180 and.
452 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
This is, uh, correct.
453 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Because I start with 0 and either withdraw for both and diagrams.
454 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
So, I hope this helps so the most important thing here is to how to find this the blue guy.
455 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
Once you find it, then you can find the functions and from the functions.
456 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
It's basically about to practice, and most of the functions will look very similar by the way, unless you have a load that is basically the opposite direction. So, basically, the same thing with the signs are going to be different.
457 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
The shape of the curve is gonna be different. So, the key here is to practice in my opinion.
458 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
All right, so, uh.
459 "Mohammad Yousuf" (339929344)
I'll stop here and there was you guys good luck in your exam.